 
EN 
8 
 EN 
Annex V – List of infringements referred to in Title III and Title VI for issuers of 
significant asset-referenced tokens 

1. 
The issuer infringes Article 21 by not notifying the EBA from any change of its 
business model likely to have a significant influence on the purchase decision of any 
actual or potential holder of significant asset-referenced tokens, or by not describing 
such a change in a crypto-asset white paper.   

2. 
The issuer infringes Article 21 by not complying with a measure requested by the 
EBA in accordance with Article 21(3).  

3. 
The issuer infringes Article 23(1), point (a) by not acting honestly, fairly and 
professionally. 

4. 
The issuer infringes Article 23(1), point (b) by not communicating with holders of 
significant asset-referenced tokens in a fair, clear and not misleading manner.  

5. 
The issuer infringes Article 23(2) by not acting in the best interests of the holders of 
significant asset-referenced tokens, or by giving  a preferential treatment to specific 
holders, which is not disclosed in the issuer’s white paper 

6. 
The issuer infringes Article 24, by not publishing on its website its approved crypto-
asset white paper as referred to in Article 19(1) and, where applicable, its modified 
crypto-asset white paper referred to in Article 21 and its marketing communications 
referred to in Article 25. 

7. 
The issuer infringes Article 24 by not making the white papers publicly accessible 
before the starting date of the offer to the public of the significant asset-referenced 
tokens or the admission of those tokens to trading on a trading platform for crypto-
assets.  

8. 
The issuer infringes Article 24 by not making the crypto-asset white paper and the 
marketing communications available as long as the significant asset-referenced 
tokens are held by the public. 

9. 
The issuer infringes Article 25(1) by publishing marketing communications, relating 
to an offer to the public of significant asset-referenced tokens, or to the admission of 
such significant asset-referenced tokens to trading on a trading platform for crypto-
assets, which do not meet the requirements set out in Article 25(1), points (a) to (d); 

10. 
In the absence of a direct claim or redemption right granted to all the holders of 
significant asset-referenced tokens, the issuer infringes Article 25(2) by not 

EN 
9 
 EN 
including, in its marketing communications, a clear and unambiguous statement that 
the holders of such tokens do not have a claim on the reserve assets or cannot redeem 
these tokens with the issuer at any time;  

11. 
The issuer infringes Article 26(1) by not disclosing at least every month and/or in a 
clear, accurate and transparent manner on their website the amount of significant 
asset-referenced tokens in circulation and the value and the composition of the 
reserve assets referred to in Article 32. 

12. 
The issuer infringes Article 26(2) by not disclosing as soon as possible and/or in a 
clear, accurate and transparent manner on their website the outcome of the audit of 
the reserve assets referred to in Article 32. 

13. 
The issuer infringes Article 26(3) by not disclosing in a clear, accurate and 
transparent manner as soon as possible any event that has or is likely to have a 
significant effect on the value of the significant asset-referenced tokens or the reserve 
assets.  

14. 
The issuer infringes Article 27(1) by not establishing and/or maintaining effective 
and transparent procedures for the prompt, fair and consistent handling of complaints 
received from holders of significant asset-referenced tokens, or by not establishing 
procedures to facilitate the handling of complaints between holders and third-party 
entities as referred to in Article 30(5), point (h). 

15. 
The issuer infringes Article 27(2), by not enabling the holders of significant asset-
referenced tokens to file complaints free of charge.  

16. 
The issuer infringes Article 27(3), by not developing and/or making available to the 
holders of significant asset-referenced tokens a template for filing complaints and/or 
by not keeping a record of all complaints received and any measures taken in 
response to those complaints. 

17. 
The issuer infringes Article 27(4), by not investigating all complaints in a timely and 
fair manner and/or, by not communicating the outcome of such investigations to the 
holders of their significant asset-referenced tokens within a reasonable period of 
time. 

18. 
The issuer infringes Article 28(1), by not maintaining and implementing effective 
policies and procedures to prevent, identify, manage and disclose conflicts of interest 
between the issuer itself and its shareholders, the members of its management body, 
its employees, any natural persons who either own, directly or indirectly, more than 
20% of the issuer's share capital or voting rights, or who exercise, by any other 
means, a power of control over the said issuer, the holders of significant asset-
referenced tokens, any third party providing one of the functions as referred in 

EN 
10 
 EN 
Article 30(5), point (h), or any natural or legal person granted with a direct claim or a 
redemption right in accordance with Article 35(3).  

19. 
The issuer infringes Article 28(1) by not taking all appropriate steps to prevent, 
identify, manage and disclose conflicts of interest arising from management and 
investment of the reserve assets.  

20. 
The issuer infringes Article 28, paragraphs (2) to (4), by not disclosing to the holders 
of significant asset-referenced tokens the general nature and sources of conflicts of 
interest and the steps taken to mitigate those risks, or by not making this disclosure 
on a durable medium, or by not being sufficiently precise in the disclosure to enable 
the holders of significant asset-referenced tokens to take an informed purchasing 
decision about such tokens. 

21. 
The issuer infringes Article 29, by not notifying to the EBA of any changes to their 
management body.  

22. 
The issuer infringes Article 30(1) by not having robust governance arrangements, 
which include a clear organisational structure with well-defined, transparent and 
consistent lines of responsibility, effective processes to identify, manage, monitor 
and report the risks to which it is or might be exposed, and adequate internal control 
processes, including sound administrative and accounting procedures. 

23. 
The issuer infringes Article 30(2) by having members of their management body 
who do not have the necessary good repute and competence, in terms of 
qualifications, experience and skills, to perform their duties or to ensure the sound 
and prudent management of the issuer. 

24. 
The issuer infringes Article 30(5) by not adopting policies and procedure policies 
that are not sufficiently effective to ensure compliance with this Regulation, 
including compliance of its managers and employees with all the provisions of this 
Title, including by not establishing, maintaining and implementing any of the 
policies and procedures referred to in Article 30(5), points (a) to (k);   

25. 
The issuer infringes Article 30(5) by not establishing and maintaining contractual 
arrangements with third-party entities as referred to in Article 30(5), point (h), that 
precisely set out the roles, responsibilities, rights and obligations of each of the third-
party entities and the issuer, or by providing for an unambiguous choice of law for 
such contracts with cross-jurisdictional implications. 

26. 
Unless they have initiated a plan as referred to in Article 42, the issuer infringes 
Article 30(6), by not employing appropriate and proportionate systems, resources or 
procedures to ensure the continued and regular performance of their services and 

EN 
11 
 EN 
activities, or by not maintaining all their systems and security access protocols to 
appropriate Union standards. 

27. 
The issuer infringes Article 30(7) by not identifying sources of operational risks or 
by not minimising those risks through the development of appropriate systems, 
controls and procedures. 

28. 
The issuer infringes Article 30(8) by not establishing a business continuity policy 
that ensures, in case of an interruption of its systems and procedures, the preservation 
of essential data and functions and the maintenance of their activities, or, where that 
is not possible, the timely recovery of such data and functions and the timely 
resumption of its activities. 

29. 
Unless it has been permitted to hold a lower amount of own funds in accordance with 
Article 31(3), the issuer infringes Article 31(1) point (a) or 41(4) by not abiding, at 
all times, to the own funds requirement. 

30. 
The issuer infringes Article 31(2) where its own funds does not consist of the 
common Equity Tier 1 items and instruments referred to in Articles 26 to 30 of 
Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 after the deductions in full, pursuant to Article 36 of 
that Regulation, without the application of threshold exemptions referred to in 
Articles 46 and 48 of that Regulation. 

31. 
The issuer infringes Article 31(3) by not abiding to the own funds required by the 
competent authority, following the assessment made in accordance with Article 
31(3).  

32. 
The issuer infringes Article 32(1) by not constituting and maintaining a reserve of 
assets at all times.  

33. 
The issuer infringes Article 32(3) where its management body does not ensure 
effective and prudent management of the reserve assets.  

34. 
The issuer infringes Article 32(3) by not ensuring that the creation and destruction of 
significant asset-referenced tokens is always matched by a corresponding increase or 
decrease in the reserve assets and that such increase or decrease is adequately 
managed to avoid any adverse impacts on the market of the reserve assets.  

35. 
The issuer infringes Article 32(4), by not having clear and/or detailed policies on the 
stabilisation mechanism of such tokens that do not meet the conditions set out in 
Article 32(4), points (a) to (g).  

EN 
12 
 EN 
36. 
The issuer infringes Article 32(5) by not mandating an independent audit of the 
reserve assets every 6 months, as of the date of its authorisation.  

37. 
The issuer infringes Article 33(1) by not establishing, maintaining or implementing 
custody policies, procedures and contractual arrangements that ensure at all times 
that the conditions listed in Article 33(1) points (a) to (d) are met.  

38. 
The issuer infringes Article 33(1) by not having a custody policy for each reserve of 
assets it manages.  

39. 
The issuer infringes Article 33(2) where the reserve assets are not held in custody by 
a crypto-asset service provider or by a credit institution by no later than 5 business 
days after the issuance of the significant asset-referenced tokens. 

40. 
The issuer infringes Article 33(3) by not exercising all due skill, care, diligence in 
the selection, appointment and review of credit institutions and crypto-asset service 
providers appointed as custodians of the reserve assets. 

41. 
The issuer infringes Article 33(3) by not ensuring that the credit institutions and 
crypto-asset service providers appointed as custodians of the reserve assets have the 
necessary expertise and market reputation to act as custodians of such reserve assets. 

42. 
The issuer infringes Article 33(3) by not having contractual arrangements with the 
custodians that ensure that the reserve assets held in custody are protected against 
claims of the custodians’ creditors. 

43. 
The issuer infringes Article 33(3) by not having custody policies and procedures that 
set out the selection criteria for the appointments of credit institutions or crypto-asset 
service providers as custodians of the reserve assets and/or by not having the 
procedure to review such appointments.  

44. 
The issuer infringes Article 33(3) by not reviewing the appointment of credit 
institutions or crypto-asset service providers as custodians of the reserve assets on a 
regular basis, and/or, by not evaluating its exposures to such custodians, and/or by 
not monitoring the financial conditions of such custodians on an ongoing basis. 

45. 
The issuer infringes Article 33(4) where the reserve assets are not entrusted to credit 
institutions or crypto-asset service providers in accordance with Article 33(4) points 
(a) to (d).  

46. 
The issuer infringes Article 33(5) where the appointment of a custodian is not 
evidenced by a written contract, or where such a contract does not regulate the flow 

EN 
13 
 EN 
of information deemed necessary to enable the issuers, the credit institutions and the 
crypto-assets service providers to perform their functions. 

47. 
The issuer infringes Article 34(1) by investing the reserve assets in any products that 
are not highly liquid financial instruments with minimal market and credit risk or 
where such investments cannot be liquidated rapidly with minimal price effect.  

48. 
The issuer infringes Article 34(2) by not holding in custody the financial instruments 
in which the reserve assets are held.  

49. 
The issuer infringes Article 34(3) by not bearing all profits and losses that result 
from the investment of the reserve assets.  

50. 
The issuer infringes Article 35(1), by not establishing, maintaining and implementing 
clear and detailed policies and procedures on the rights granted to holders of 
significant asset-referenced tokens. 

51. 
Where holders of significant asset-referenced are granted rights as referred to in 
Article 35(1), the issuer infringes Article 35(2) by not establishing a policy that 
meets the conditions listed in Article 35(2), points (a) to (e).  
52. 
Where holders of significant asset-referenced tokens are granted rights as referred to 
in Article 35(1), the issuer infringes Article 35(2), by not providing for fees that are 
proportionate and commensurate with the actual costs incurred by the issuers of 
significant asset-referenced tokens. 

53. 
Where the issuer do not grant rights as referred to in Article 35(1) to all the holders 
of significant asset-referenced tokens, such an issuer infringes Article 35(3) by not 
establishing a policy specifying the natural or legal persons that are provided with 
such rights, or by not specifying the conditions for exercising such rights, or the 
obligations imposed on those persons.   

54. 
Where the issuer do not grant rights as referred to in Article 35(1) to all the holders 
of significant asset-referenced tokens, such an issuer infringes Article 35(3) by not 
establishing or maintaining appropriate contractual arrangements with those natural 
or legal persons who are granted with such rights, or by not having contractual 
arrangements which do set out the roles, responsibilities, rights and obligations of the 
issuers and each of those natural or legal persons, or by not having an unambiguous 
choice of law for such contractual arrangements with cross-border implications.  

55. 
Where the issuer do not grant rights as referred to in Article 35(1) to all the holders 
of significant asset-referenced tokens, such an issuer infringes Article 35(4) by not 
putting in place a mechanism to ensure the liquidity of the significant asset-
referenced tokens.  
