EN 
8 
 EN 
4. 
BUDGETARY IMPLICATIONS 
This proposal holds implications in terms of costs and administrative burden for NCAs and 
ESMA. The magnitude and distribution of these costs will depend on the precise requirements 
placed on DLT market infrastructures and the related supervisory and monitoring tasks.  
The estimated supervisory costs for each Member State (including staff, training, IT 
infrastructure) can range from €150.000 to €250.000 per year per DLT market infrastructure. 
However, this would be partially offset by the supervisory fees that NCAs would levy on 
DLT market infrastructures. 
For ESMA, the estimated cost in relation to review and coordination are estimated at 
€150.000-300.000 in total, not per DLT market infrastructure, as they will have no direct 
supervision. These costs will be covered by ESMA’s operating budget, which will be 
increased. In addition, ESMA is expected to maintain a register of DLT market infrastructures 
in operation, the costs related to this are considered to be covered by the costs relating to the 
maintenance of the register as referred to in the proposal for a Regulation on Markets in 
Crypto-Assets.  
All budgetary implications of this proposal is detailed in the legislative financial statement 
attached to the proposal for a Regulation on Markets in Crypto-Assets.  
5. 
OTHER ELEMENTS 
• 
Detailed explanation of the specific provisions of the proposal 
This proposal seeks to provide legal certainty and flexibility for market participants who wish 
to operate a DLT market infrastructure by establishing uniform requirements for operating 
these. Permissions granted under this Regulation would allow market participants to operate a 
DLT market infrastructure and to provide their services across all Member States.  
Article 1 defines the subject matter and scope. In particular, this Regulation establishes 
operating conditions for DLT market infrastructures, permissions to make use of them and the 
supervision and cooperation of competent authorities and ESMA. The Regulation applies to 
market participants (either investment firms, market operators or central securities 
depositories, CSDs) permissioned in accordance with Article 7 or Article 8. Article 2 sets out 
terms and definitions, among others: ‘DLT market infrastructure’, ‘DLT multilateral trading 
facility’ or ‘DLT MTF’, ‘DLT securities settlement system’ and ‘DLT transferable securities’. 
Article 3 describes the limitations in terms of DLT transferable securities that can be admitted 
to trading on, or recorded by, DLT market infrastructures. For shares, the market 
capitalisation or the tentative market capitalisation of the issuer of DLT transferable securities 
should be less than EUR 200 million; for public bonds other than sovereign bonds, covered 
bonds and corporate bonds the limit is EUR 500 million. DLT market infrastructures should 
not admit to trading or record sovereign bonds. In addition, the total market value of DLT 
transferable securities recorded by a CSD operating a DLT securities settlement system, or by 
a DLT MTF where allowed to record such DLT transferable securities, shall not exceed EUR 
2.5 billion.     
Article 4 sets the requirements for a DLT MTF, which are the same as for an MTF under 
Directive 2014/65/EU and specifies the exemptions possible under this Regulation. Article 5 
sets the requirements for a CSD operating a securities settlement system, which are the same 
as for a CSD under Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 and specifies the exemptions possible 
under this Regulation. Article 4 and Article 5 contain a limited list of exemptions that DLT 
market infrastructures can request and the conditions attached to such exemptions.  
EN 
9 
 EN 
Article 6 sets the additional requirements applicable to DLT market infrastructures to address 
the novel forms of risks raised by the use of DLT. DLT market infrastructures must provide 
all members, participants, clients and investors with clear and unambiguous information on 
how they carry out their functions, services and activities and how these are different from a 
traditional MTF or CSD. DLT market infrastructures must also ensure that overall IT and 
cyber arrangements related to the use of DLT are adequate. Where the business model of a 
DLT market infrastructure involves the safekeeping of clients’ funds or DLT transferable 
securities, or the means to access these, they must have adequate arrangements to safeguard 
such assets. 
Article 7 and Article 8 set out the procedure for the specific permission to operate a DLT 
MTF and a DLT securities settlement system respectively and include details on the 
information that must be submitted to the competent authority.  
Article 9 defines the cooperation between the DLT market infrastructure, competent 
authorities and ESMA. DLT market infrastructures must inform competent authorities and 
ESMA of, for example: proposed material changes to their business plan including critical 
staff, evidence of hacking, fraud or other serious malpractice, material changes in the 
information contained in the initial application, technical or operational difficulties in 
delivering activities or services covered under the permission and any risks to investor 
protection, market integrity or financial stability that may have arisen and were not foreseen at 
the time the permission was given. Where notified of such information, the competent 
authority may request the DLT market infrastructure to submit an application for another 
permission, exemption or take any corrective measure it deems appropriate. The DLT market 
infrastructure is obliged to provide any requested information to the competent authority 
which granted the permission and ESMA. The competent authority, after the consultation of 
ESMA, may recommend corrective measures to the DLT market infrastructure to ensure 
investor protection, market integrity or financial stability. The DLT market infrastructure 
needs to detail how these have been accommodated. In addition, the DLT market 
infrastructure shall produce and submit a report to the competent authority and ESMA 
detailing all of the information above including potential difficulties in applying EU financial 
services legislation. ESMA shall, on a regular basis, inform all competent authorities about 
the aforementioned reports produced by DLT market infrastructures and exemptions granted 
in accordance with Article 7 and Article 8, monitor the application of these exemptions and 
submit an annual report to the Commission on how they are applied in practice. 
Article 10 details, that at the latest after a five-year period, ESMA will produce a detailed 
report on the pilot regime to the Commission. On the basis of ESMA’s assessment, the 
Commission will produce a report including a cost-benefit analysis on whether the pilot 
regime should be maintained as it is or amended, whether it should be extended to new 
categories of financial instruments, whether targeted amendments to EU legislation should be 
considered to enable a widespread use of DLT and whether the pilot regime should be 
terminated.  
Article 11 indicates that the regulation shall enter into application 12 months after its entry 
into force.  

EN 
10 
 EN 
2020/0267 (COD) 
Proposal for a 
REGULATION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL 
on a pilot regime for market infrastructures based on distributed ledger technology 
(Text with EEA relevance) 
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, 
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular 
Article 114 thereof, 
Having regard to the proposal from the European Commission, 
After transmission of the draft legislative act to the national parliaments, 
Having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee30,  
Having regard to the opinion of the European Central Bank31 
Acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, 
Whereas: 

(1) 
The European Commission’s communication on a Digital Finance Strategy32 aims to 
ensure that the Union financial services legislation is fit for the digital age and 
contributes to a future-ready economy that works for the people, including by enabling 
the use of innovative technologies. The Union has a policy interest in developing and 
promoting the uptake of transformative technologies in the financial sector, such as 
blockchain and distributed ledger technology (‘DLT’). Crypto-assets are one of the 
main DLT applications for finance. 
(2) 
The majority of crypto-assets fall outside of the scope of EU legislation and raise, 
among others, challenges in terms of investor protection, market integrity and 
financial stability. They therefore require a dedicated regime at Union level. By 
contrast, other crypto-assets qualify as financial instruments within the meaning of 
Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council (Markets in 
Financial Instruments Directive, MiFID II)33. In so far as a crypto-asset qualifies as a 
financial instrument under that Directive, a full set of Union financial rules, including 
Regulation (EU) 2017/1129 of the European Parliament and of the Council (the 

30 
OJ C , , p. . 
31 
OJ C […], […], p. […]. 
32 
Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Central 
Bank, the European Economic and Social Committee and the committee of the Regions on a Digital 
Finance Strategy for EU COM(2020)591 
33 
Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on markets in 
financial instruments and amending Directive 2002/92/EC and Directive 2011/61/EU (OJ L 173, 
12.6.2014, p. 349). 
EN 
11 
 EN 
Prospectus Regulation)34, Directive 2013/50/EU of the European Parliament and of the 
Council (the Transparency Directive)35, Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 of the 
European Parliament and of the Council (the Market Abuse Regulation)36, Regulation 
(EU) No 236/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council (the Short Selling 
Regulation)37, Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 of the European Parliament and of the 
Council (the Central Securities Depositories Regulation)38 and Directive 98/26/EC of 
the European Parliament and of the Council (the Settlement Finality Directive)39 may 
apply to its issuer and firms conducting activities related to it. The so-called 
tokenisation of financial instruments, that is to say their transformation into crypto-
assets to enable them to be issued, stored and transferred on a distributed ledger, is 
expected to open up opportunities for efficiency improvements in the entire trading 
and post-trading area.  
(3) 
The Union financial services legislation was not designed with DLT and crypto-assets 
in mind40, and there are provisions in existing EU financial services legislation that 
may preclude or limit the use of DLT in the issuance, trading and settlement of crypto-
assets which qualify as financial instruments. There is also currently a lack of market 
infrastructures using DLT and providing trading and settlement services for crypto-
assets that qualify as financial instruments. Without a secondary market able to 
provide liquidity and to enable investors to buy and sell such assets, the primary 
market for crypto-assets that qualify as financial instruments will never expand in a 
sustainable way. 
(4) 
At the same time, regulatory gaps exist due to legal, technological and operational 
specificities related to the use of DLT and crypto-assets that qualify as financial 
instruments. For instance, there are no transparency, reliability and safety 
requirements imposed on the protocols and smart contracts underpinning crypto-assets 
that qualify as financial instruments. The underlying technology could also pose some 
novel forms of cyber risks that are not appropriately addressed by existing rules. 
Several projects for the trading and post-trading of crypto-assets qualifying as 

34 
Regulation (EU) 2017/1129 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 2017 on the 
prospectus to be published when securities are offered to the public or admitted to trading on a 
regulated market, and repealing Directive 2003/71/EC (OJ L 168, 30.6.2017, p. 12) 
35 
Directive 2013/50/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2013 amending 
Directive 2004/109/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the harmonisation of 
transparency requirements in relation to information about issuers whose securities are admitted to 
trading on a regulated market, Directive 2003/71/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on 
the prospectus to be published when securities are offered to the public or admitted to trading and 
Commission Directive 2007/14/EC laying down detailed rules for the implementation of certain 
provisions of Directive 2004/109/EC (OJ L 294, 6.11.2013, p. 13)  
36 
Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on 
market abuse (market abuse regulation) and repealing Directive 2003/6/EC of the European Parliament 
and of the Council and Commission Directives 2003/124/EC, 2003/125/EC and 2004/72/EC (OJ L 173, 
12.6.2014, p. 1) 
37 
Regulation (EU) No 236/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 March 2012 on 
short selling and certain aspects of credit default swaps (OJ L 86, 24.3.2012, p. 1).  
38 
Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on 
improving securities settlement in the European Union and on central securities depositories and 
amending Directives 98/26/EC and 2014/65/EU and Regulation (EU) No 236/2012 (OJ L 257, 
28.8.2014, p. 1) 
39 
Directive 98/26/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 May 1998 on settlement 
finality in payment and securities settlement systems (OJ L 166, 11.6.1998, p. 45) 
40 
European Securities and Markets Authority’s, Report with advice on Initial Coin Offerings and Crypto-
Assets (ESMA50-157-1391) 
EN 
12 
 EN 
financial instruments have been developed in the Union, but few are already in 
operation or they have limited scale. Given this limited experience as regards the 
trading and post-trading of transactions in crypto-assets that qualify as financial 
instruments, it would currently be premature to bring significant modifications to the 
Union financial services legislation to enable the full deployment of such crypto-assets 
and their underlying technology. At the same time, the creation of financial market 
infrastructures for crypto-assets that qualify as financial instruments is currently 
constrained by some requirements embedded in the Union’s financial services 
legislation that would not be fully adapted to crypto-assets qualifying as financial 
instruments and to the use of DLT. For instance, trading platforms for crypto-assets 
usually give direct access to retail investors, while traditional trading venues usually 
give access through financial intermediaries.  
(5) 
In order to allow for the development of crypto-assets that qualify as financial 
instruments and DLT, while preserving a high level of financial stability, market 
integrity, transparency and investor protection, it would be useful to create a pilot 
regime for DLT market infrastructures. A pilot regime for DLT market infrastructures 
should allow such DLT market infrastructures to be temporarily exempted from some 
specific requirements under the Union financial services legislation that could 
otherwise prevent them from developing solutions for the trading and settlement of 
transactions in crypto-assets that qualify as financial instruments. The pilot regime 
should also enable the European Securities and Markets Authorities (ESMA) and  
competent authorities to gain experience on the opportunities and specific risks created 
by crypto-assets that qualify as financial instruments, and by their underlying 
technology.   
(6) 
To meet this objective, a new Union status of DLT market infrastructures should be 
created. This status of DLT market infrastructure should be optional and should not 
prevent financial market infrastructures, such as trading venues, central securities 
depositories and central counterparties, from developing trading and post-trading 
services and activities for crypto-assets which qualify as financial instruments or are 
based on DLT, under the existing Union financial services legislation. 
(7) 
A DLT market infrastructure should be defined either as a DLT multilateral trading 
facility (DLT MTF) or a DLT securities settlement system. 
(8) 
A DLT MTF should be a multilateral trading facility that is operated by an investment 
firm or a market operator that operate the business or a regulated market and maybe 
the regulated market itself, authorised under Directive 2014/65/EU (Markets in 
Financial Instruments Directive, MiFID II), and that has received a specific permission 
under this Regulation. Such a DLT MTF should be subject to all the requirements 
applicable to a multilateral trading facility under the framework of Directive 
2014/65/EU (Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, MiFID II), Regulation EU 
No 600/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council (the Markets in Financial 
Instruments Regulation, MiFIR)41, or any other EU financial services legislation, 
except if it has been granted one or several exemptions by its national competent 

41 
Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on 
markets in financial instruments and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (OJ L 173, 12.6.2014, p. 
84) 
EN 
13 
 EN 
authority, in accordance with this Regulation and Directive (EU) .../... of the European 
Parliament and of the Council42. 
(9) 
The use of distributed ledger technology, with all transactions recorded in a 
decentralised ledger, can expedite and condense trading and settlement to nearly real-
time and could enable the merger of trading and post-trading activities. However, the 
current rules envisage the performance of trading and settlement activities by separate 
market infrastructures. Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 of the European Parliament and 
of the Council (the Central Securities Depositories Regulation) requires that financial 
instruments admitted to trading on a trading venue within the meaning of Directive 
2014/65/EU (Market in Financial Instruments Directive, MiFID II) be recorded with a 
central securities depositary (‘CSD’), while a distributed ledger could be potentially 
used as a decentralised version of such a depository. Therefore, it would be justified to 
allow a DLT MTF to perform some activities normally performed by a CSD. 
Therefore, when granted the relevant exemption(s), a DLT MTF should be allowed to 
ensure the initial recording of DLT transferable securities, the settlement of 
transactions in DLT transferable securities and the safekeeping of DLT transferable 
securities.  
(10) 
A DLT securities settlement system should be a securities settlement system operated 
by a CSD authorised under Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 (the Central Securities 
Depositories Regulation) that has received a specific permission under this Regulation. 
A DLT securities settlement system, and the CSD operating it, should be subject to the 
relevant requirements of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 (the Central Securities 
Depository Regulation), except where the national competent authority has granted the 
CSD operating the DLT securities settlement system with one or several exemptions, 
in accordance with this Regulation.  
(11) 
A DLT MTF or a CSD operating a DLT securities settlement system should only 
admit to trading or record DLT transferable securities on their distributed ledger. DLT 
transferable securities should be crypto-assets that qualify as ‘transferable securities’ 
within the meaning of Directive 2014/65/EU (the Market in Financial Instruments 
Directive, MiFID II) and that are issued, transferred and stored on a distributed ledger.  
(12) 
In order to allow innovation and experimentation in a sound regulatory environment 
while preserving financial stability, the type of transferable securities admitted to 
trading on a DLT MTF or recorded in a CSD operating a DLT securities settlement 
system should be limited to securities, such as shares and bonds that are not liquid.  In 
order to determine whether a share or bond is liquid or not, this Regulation should set 
some value thresholds. To avoid the creation of any risk to financial stability, the total 
market value of DLT transferable securities recorded by a CSD operating a DLT 
securities settlement system, or admitted to trading by a DLT MTF, should also be 
limited. DLT market infrastructures should also be prevented from admitting to 
trading or recording on the distributed ledger sovereign bonds. To verify that the DLT 
transferable securities traded on or recorded by a DLT market infrastructure meets the 
conditions imposed under this Regulation, national competent authorities should be 
allowed to require such DLT market infrastructures to submit reports.   

42 
Proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directives 
2006/43/EC, 2009/65/EC, 2009/138/EU, 2011/61/EU, EU/2013/36, 2014/65/EU, (EU) 2015/2366 and 
EU/2016/2341 - COM(2020)596 
EN 
14 
 EN 
(13) 
In order to ensure a level playing field with transferable securities admitted to trading 
on a traditional trading venue within the meaning of Directive 2014/65/EU (the 
Market in Financial Instruments Directive, MiFID II) and a high level of market 
integrity, the DLT transferable securities admitted to trading on a DLT MTF should 
always be subject to the provisions prohibiting market abuse in Regulation (EU) No 
596/2014 (the Market Abuse Regulation).  
(14) 
A DLT MTF should be able to request one or several exemptions on a temporary 
basis, as listed under this Regulation, to be granted by the competent authority, if it 
complies with the conditions attached to such exemptions as well as additional 
requirements set under this Regulation to address novel forms of risks raised by the 
use of DLT. The DLT MTF should also comply with any compensatory measure 
imposed by the competent authority in order to meet the objectives pursued by the 
provision for which an exemption has been requested. 
(15) 
Where a financial instrument is admitted to trading on an MTF, it is to be recorded 
with an authorised Central Securities Depository in accordance with Regulation (EU) 
No 909/2014 (the Central Securities Depository Regulation). While the recording of a 
transferable security and the settlement of related transactions could potentially take 
place on a distributed ledger, Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 imposes an intermediation 
by a CSD and would oblige to replicate the recording on the distributed ledger at the 
CSD level, potentially imposing a functionally redundant overlay to the trade lifecycle 
of a financial instrument handled by DLT market infrastructures subject to this 
Regulation. Therefore, a DLT MTF should be able to request an exemption of the 
book-entry requirement and the recording with a CSD set by Regulation (EU) No 
909/2014, where the DLT MTF complies with equivalent requirements to those 
applying to a CSD. The DLT MTF should record the transferable securities on its 
distributed ledger, ensure the integrity of the issues on the distributed ledger, establish 
and maintain procedures to ensure the safekeeping of the DLT transferable securities, 
complete the settlement of transactions, and prevent settlement fails.  
(16) 
Where performing the settlement of transactions in DLT transferable securities, the 
DLT MTF should ensure that the payment for DLT transferable securities from the 
buyer occurs at the same time as DLT transferable securities are delivered from the 
seller (delivery versus payment). Where practicable and available, the cash payments 
should be settled through central bank money and, where not practicable or available, 
through commercial bank money. In order to test innovative solutions and to allow for 
the cash payments to occur on a distributed ledger, the DLT MTFs should also be 
allowed to use so-called settlement coins, that is to say commercial bank money in a 
tokenised form, or e-money tokens as defined in the Regulation No 2021/XX on 
Markets in Crypto-Assets43. Where using commercial bank money for cash payments, 
the DLT MTF should limit counterparty risk by establishing and monitoring adherence 
by the credit institutions used for the settlement of cash payments to strict criteria, 
such as their regulation and supervision, creditworthiness, capitalisation, access to 
liquidity and operational reliability.   

43 Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on Markets in Crypto-assets, and 
amending Directive (EU) 2019/1937– COM(2020)593 
EN 
15 
 EN 
(17) 
Under Directive (EU) .../...44, which amends Directive 2014/65/EU (Markets in 
Financial Instruments Directive, MiFID II), a DLT MTF is able to request an 
exemption from the obligation of intermediation. Traditional MTFs may admit as 
members or participants only investment firms, credit institutions and other persons 
who have sufficient level of trading ability, competence and with adequate 
organisational arrangements and resources. By contrast, many trading platforms for 
crypto-assets offer a disintermediated access and provide direct access to retail clients. 
One potential regulatory hurdle to the development of MTFs for DLT transferable 
securities could be the obligation of intermediation embedded in Directive 
2014/65/EU (Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, MiFID II). A DLT MTF is 
allowed to request a temporary derogation to such an obligation of intermediation and 
to provide access to retail investors, provided that adequate safeguards in terms of 
investor protection would be in place and that such retail investors are fit and proper 
for anti-money laundering and combatting the financing of terrorism purpose. 
(18) 
To be granted an exemption under this Regulation, the DLT MTF should demonstrate 
that the exemption is proportionate and limited to the use of DLT as described in its 
business plan and that the exemption requested is limited to the DLT MTF and not 
extended to any other MTF operated by the same investment firm or market operator.  
(19) 
A CSD operating a DLT securities settlement system should be able to request one or 
several exemptions on a temporary basis, as listed under this Regulation, to be granted 
by the relevant competent authority, if it complied with the conditions to such 
exemptions as well as additional requirements to address novel forms of risks raised 
by the use of DLT. The CSD operating the DLT securities settlement system should 
comply with any compensatory measure imposed by the competent authority in order 
to meet the objectives pursued by the provision for which an exemption has been 
requested.  
(20) 
A CSD operating a securities settlement system should be allowed to request 
exemptions from different provisions that are likely to create regulatory obstacles for 
the development of settlement securities systems for transferable securities. For 
instance, a CSD should be able to request an exemption from some definitions of 
Regulation (EU) 909/2014 (the Central Securities Depositories Regulation), such as 
the notion of ‘dematerialised form’, ‘security account’, ‘transfer orders’ as well as 
exemptions from provisions which refers to the notion of ‘security account’, such as 
the rules on the recording of securities, integrity of issue or segregation of accounts. 
CSDs operate securities settlement system by crediting and debiting the securities 
accounts of its participants. However, double-entry (or multiple-entry) book keepings 
securities accounts may not always exist in a DLT system. Therefore, a CSD operating 
a DLT securities settlements system should be able to request an exemption from the 
rules referring to the notion of ‘securities account’ or ‘book-entry form’ should it be 
necessary to allow the recording of DLT transferable securities on a distributed ledger, 
to ensure the integrity of the DLT transferable security issue on the distributed ledger 
and the segregation of the DLT transferable securities belonging to various 
participants.   

44 
Proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 
EU/2013/36, Directive 2014/65/EU, Directive (EU) 2015/2366, Directive 2009/138/EC, Directive 
EU/2016/2341, Directive 2009/65/EC, Directive 2011/61/EC and Directive 2006/43/EC, - 
COM(2020)596 

EN 
16 
 EN 
(21) 
Under Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 (the Central Securities Depositories Regulation), 
a CSD can only outsource one of its core activities, after receiving an authorisation 
from the competent authority. The CSD is also required to respect several conditions, 
so that the outsourcing does not result in a delegation of its responsibility or in a 
modification of the obligations of the CSD towards its participants or issuers. 
Depending on its business plan, a CSD operating a DLT securities settlement system 
could be willing to share the responsibility of running its distributed ledger on which 
the transferable securities are recorded with other entities, including with its 
participants. The DLT securities settlement system should be able to request an 
exemption from the outsourcing requirements to develop such innovative business 
models. In such a case, they should demonstrate that the provisions on outsourcing are 
incompatible with the use of DLT as envisaged in their business plan and they should 
also demonstrate that some minimum requirements on outsourcing are met.  
(22) 
The obligation of intermediation through a credit institution or an investment firm so 
that retail investors are not able to obtain direct access to the settlement and delivery 
systems operated by a CSD could potentially create a regulatory obstacle to the 
development of alternative models of settlement based on a DLT that allow direct 
access by retail clients. Therefore, the CSD operating a DLT securities settlement 
system should be allowed to request an exemption from the notion of participant, as 
set out by Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 (the Central Securities Depositories 
Regulation). Where seeking an exemption from the obligation of intermediation under 
Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 (the Central Securities Depositories Regulation), the 
CSD operating a securities settlement system should ensure that these persons are of 
sufficient good repute and fit and proper for the purpose of anti-money laundering and 
combatting the financing of terrorism. The CSD operating the securities settlement 
system should also ensure that these participants have sufficient level of ability, 
competence, experience and knowledge of post-trading and the functioning of DLTs.  
(23) 
The entities that are eligible to participate in a CSD covered by Regulation (EU) No 
909/2014 (the Central Securities Depositories Regulation) are based on the entities 
that are eligible to participate in a securities settlement system that is designated and 
notified in accordance with Directive 98/26/EC (the Settlement Finality Directive) 
because Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 (the Central Securities Depositories 
Regulation) requires securities settlement systems operated by CSDs to be designated 
and notified under Directive 98/26/EC. A DLT securities settlement system that 
applies to be exempted from the participation requirements of Regulation (EU) No 
909/2014 (the Central Securities Depositories Regulation) would not be compliant 
with the participation requirements of Directive 98/26/EC. Consequently, such a DLT 
securities settlement system could not be designated and notified under that Directive.  
However, this would not preclude a DLT securities settlement system that complies 
with all of the requirements of Directive 98/26/EC from being so designated and 
notified.    
(24) 
Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 (the Central Securities Depositories Regulation) 
encourages the settlement of transactions in central bank money. Where the settlement 
of cash payments in central bank money is not available and practicable, this 
settlement can take place in commercial bank money. That provision can be difficult 
to apply for a CSD operating a DLT securities settlement system, as such a CSD 
would have to effect movements in cash accounts at the same time as the delivery of 
securities on the DLT. A CSD operating a DLT securities settlement system should be 
allowed to request an exemption from the rules of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 (the 
EN 
17 
 EN 
Central Securities Depositories Regulation) on cash settlement in order to develop 
innovative solutions, such as the use of settlement coins or ‘e-money tokens’ as 
defined  in the Regulation No 2021/XX on Markets in Crypto-Assets45.  
(25) 
Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 (the Central Securities Depositories Regulation) 
requires that a CSD gives access to another CSD or to other market infrastructures. 
The access to a CSD operating a DLT securities settlement system can be burdensome 
or difficult to achieve, as the interoperability of legacy systems with DLT has not been 
tested yet. A DLT securities settlement system should also be able to request an 
exemption from such rules, if it can demonstrate that the application of such rules are 
disproportionate to the size of the DLT securities settlement system.  
(26) 
Irrespective of the rule for which an exemption is requested, a CSD operating a DLT 
securities settlement system should demonstrate that the exemption requested is 
proportionate and justified by the use of DLT. The exemption should also be limited to 
the DLT securities settlement system and not cover other securities settlement systems 
operated by the same CSD.    
(27) 
DLT market infrastructures should also be subject to additional requirements, 
compared to traditional market infrastructures. These requirements are necessary to 
avoid risks raised by the use of DLT or by the new way the DLT market infrastructure 
would carry out its activities. Therefore, DLT market infrastructure should establish a 
clear business plan that details how the DLT would be used and the legal arrangements 
put in place. 
(28) 
A CSD operating a DLT securities settlement system, or DLT MTF where they are 
permitted to settle the transactions in DLT transferable securities themselves, should 
establish the rules on the functioning of the proprietary DLT they operate, including 
the rules to access and admission on the DLT, the rules for the participating nodes and 
the rules to address potential conflicts of interest, as well as risk management 
measures.  
(29) 
A DLT market infrastructure should be required to inform members, participants, 
issuers and clients on how they intend to perform their activities and how the use of 
DLT will create deviations compared to the way the service is normally provided by a 
traditional MTF or a CSD operating a securities settlement system.  
(30) 
A DLT market infrastructure should have specific and robust IT and cyber 
arrangements related to the use of DLT. These arrangements should be proportionate 
to the nature, scale and complexity of the DLT market infrastructure’s business plan. 
These arrangements should also ensure the continued reliability, continuity and 
security of the services provided, including the reliability of smart contracts that are 
potentially used. DLT market infrastructures should also ensure the integrity, security, 
confidentiality, availability and accessibility of data stored on the DLT. The competent 
authority of a DLT market infrastructure should be allowed to request an audit to 
ensure that the overall IT and cyber arrangements are fit for purpose. The costs of such 
an audit should be borne by the DLT market infrastructure.  
(31) 
Where the business plan of a DLT market infrastructure would involve the 
safekeeping of clients’ funds, such as cash or cash equivalent, or DLT transferable 
securities, or the means of access to such DLT transferable securities, including in the 

45 Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on markets in crypto-assets, and 
amending Directive (EU) 2019/1937 – COM(2020)593  
EN 
18 
 EN 
form of cryptographic keys, the DLT market infrastructure should have adequate 
arrangements in place to safeguard their clients’ assets. They should not use clients’ 
assets on own account, except with prior express consent from their clients. The DLT 
market infrastructure should segregate clients’ funds or DLT transferable securities, or 
the means of access to such assets, from its own assets or other clients’ assets. The 
overall IT and cyber arrangements of DLT market infrastructures should ensure that 
clients’ assets are protected against fraud, cyber threats or other malfunctions.  
(32) 
At the time where the specific permission is granted, DLT market infrastructures 
should also have a credible exit strategy in place in case the regime on DLT market 
infrastructures should be discontinued or the specific permission or some of the 
exemptions granted should be withdrawn.   
(33) 
The specific permission granted to a DLT market infrastructure should follow the 
same procedures as the authorisation of a traditional MTF, or a CSD where such a 
CSD is seeking to operate a new securities settlement system. However, when 
applying for a permission, the applicant DLT infrastructure should indicate the 
exemptions it would be seeking. Before granting a permission to a DLT market 
infrastructure, the competent authority should consult ESMA. ESMA should issue a 
non-binding opinion and make any recommendations on the application or the 
exemptions requested. ESMA should also consult the competent authorities of the 
other Member States. Where issuing its non-binding opinion, ESMA should aim at 
ensuring financial stability, market integrity and investor protection. In order to ensure 
the level-playing field and fair competition across the single market, ESMA’s non-
binding opinion should also aim at ensuring the consistency and proportionality of the 
exemptions granted by different competent authorities across the Union.  
(34) 
The competent authority which would examine the application submitted by a 
prospective DLT market infrastructure should have the possibility to refuse a 
permission if there were reasons to believe that the DLT market infrastructure would 
pose a threat to financial stability, investor protection or market integrity or if the 
application were an attempt to circumvent existing requirements.  
(35) 
The specific permission given by a competent authority to a given DLT market 
infrastructure should indicate the exemptions granted to that DLT market 
infrastructure. Such a permission should be valid for the Union. ESMA should publish 
on its website the list of DLT market infrastructures and the list of exemptions granted 
to each of them.  
(36) 
The specific permission and the exemptions granted by national competent authorities 
should be granted on a temporary basis, for a period of up to six years from the date of 
the specific permission. After a five-year period from the entry into application of the 
Regulation, ESMA and the Commission would be required to make an assessment of 
this pilot regime for market infrastructures based on digital ledger technology. The 
aforementioned six-year period provides DLT market infrastructures sufficient time to 
adapt their business models to any modifications of this regime and operate under the 
pilot in a commercially viable manner. It would allow ESMA and the Commission to 
gather a useful data set encompassing around three calendar years of the operation of 
the pilot regime following the grant of a critical mass of specific permissions and 
related exemptions and to report thereon. It would also allow time for DLT market 
infrastructures to take the necessary steps either to wind down their operations or to 
transition to a new regulatory framework following ESMA’s and the Commission’s 
reports.     
EN 
19 
 EN 
(37) 
Without prejudice to the relevant provisions of  Directive 2014/65/EU (Markets in 
Financial Instruments Directive, MiFID II) or Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 (the 
Central Securities Depositories Regulation), the competent authorities should have the 
power to withdraw the specific permission or any exemptions granted to the DLT 
market infrastructure, where a flaw has been discovered in the underlying technology 
or the services or activities provided by the DLT market infrastructure, and provided 
that this flaw outweighs the benefits provided by the service at stake, or where the 
DLT market infrastructure has breached any conditions attached to the exemptions 
imposed by the competent authority at the time of the granting of the specific 
permission, or where the DLT market infrastructure has recorded financial instruments 
that do not meet the conditions of DLT transferrable securities under this Regulation. 
In the course of its activity, a DLT market infrastructure should have the possibility to 
ask for additional exemptions to those requested at the time of the permission. In such 
a case, these additional exemptions requested by the DLT market infrastructures 
should be subject to a specific permission by the competent authorities, in the same 
way as those requested at the time of the initial permission of the DLT market 
infrastructure.  
(38) 
Since DLT market infrastructures could receive temporary exemptions from existing 
Union legislation, they should closely cooperate with competent authorities and the 
European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) during the time of their specific 
permission. DLT market infrastructures should inform the competent authorities and 
ESMA about any material change to its business plan and its critical staff, any 
evidence of cyber threats or attacks, fraud or serious malpractice, of any change in the 
information provided at the time of the initial application for permission, of any 
technical difficulties, and in particular those linked to the use of DLT, and of any new 
risks to investor protection, market integrity and financial stability that was not 
envisaged at the time where the specific permission was granted. Where notified of 
such a material change, the competent authority should request the DLT market 
infrastructure to apply for a new permission or exemption or it should take any 
corrective measures it deems appropriate. DLT market infrastructures should also 
provide any relevant data to competent authorities and ESMA, whenever such data is 
requested. To ensure investor protection, market integrity and financial stability, the 
competent authority which granted the specific permission to the DLT market 
infrastructure should be able to recommend any corrective measures, after consultation 
with ESMA.  
(39) 
DLT market infrastructures should also make regular reports to their competent 
authorities and ESMA. ESMA should organise discussions on these reports to enable 
all competent authorities across the Union to gain experience on the impact of the use 
of DLT and on any adaptations to the Union financial services legislation that could be 
necessary to allow for the use of DLT on a greater scale.  
(40) 
Five years after the entry into application of this Regulation, ESMA should report to 
the Commission on this pilot regime for DLT market infrastructures, including on the 
potential benefits linked to the use of DLT, the risks raised and the technical 
difficulties. Based on ESMA’s report, the Commission should report to the Council 
and European Parliament. This report should assess the costs and benefits of extending 
this regime on DLT market infrastructures for another period of time, extending this 
regime to new type of financial instruments, making this regime permanent with or 
without modifications, bringing modifications to the Union financial services 
legislation or terminating this regime.   
EN 
20 
 EN 
(41) 
Some potential gaps have been identified in the existing EU financial services rules as 
regards their application to crypto-assets that qualify as financial instruments46. In 
particular, some regulatory technical standards under the Regulation EU No 600/2014 
(the Markets in financial instruments Regulative) relative to certain data reporting 
requirements and pre- and post-trade transparency requirements are not well adapted 
to financial instruments issued on a distributed ledger technology. Secondary markets 
in financial instruments issued on distributed ledger technology or similar technology 
are still nascent and therefore their features may differ from markets in financial 
instruments using traditional technology. The rules set out in these regulatory technical 
standards should be capable of being effectively applied to all financial instruments, 
regardless of the technology used. Therefore, ESMA should be mandated to carry out 
a comprehensive assessment of these regulatory technical standards adopted in 
application of Regulation EU No 600/2014 and propose any needed amendments 
aimed at ensuring that the rules set out therein can be effectively applied to financial 
instruments issued on distributed ledger technology. In carrying out this assessment, 
ESMA should take into account the specificities of those financial instruments issued 
on a distributed ledger technology and whether they require adapted standards which 
would allow for their development without undermining the objectives of the rules laid 
down in the regulatory technical standards adopted in application of Regulation EU 
No 600/2014. 
(42) 
Where the objectives of this Regulation cannot be sufficiently achieved by the 
Member States, because any regulatory obstacles to the development of DLT market 
infrastructures for crypto-assets that qualify as financial instruments under Directive 
2014/65/EU (Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, MiFID II) are embedded in 
Union financial services legislation such objectives can rather be better achieved at 
Union level. Therefore, the Union may adopt measures, in accordance with the 
principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty on European Union. In 
accordance with the principle of proportionality as set out in that Article, this 
Regulation does not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve those objectives.  
(43) 
In order for the Union to keep pace with innovation, it is important that the regime of 
DLT market infrastructures enters into application, as soon as possible, after the 
transposition by Member States of the Directive (EU) .../... of the European Parliament 
and of the Council47.   
(44) 
The European Data Protection Supervisor and the European Data Protection Board 
were consulted in accordance with Article 42(1) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1725(EC) of 
the European Parliament and of the Council48, and delivered their opinion on…[date 
of the opinion(s)], 

46 
European Securities and Markets Authority’s, Report with advice on Initial Coin Offerings and Crypto-
Assets (ESMA50-157-1391) 
47 
Proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directives 
2006/43/EC, 2009/65/EC, 2009/138/EU, 2011/61/EU, EU/2013/36, 2014/65/EU, (EU) 2015/2366 and 
EU/2016/2341 - COM(2020)596 
48 
Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2018 on the 
protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the Union institutions, 
bodies, offices and agencies and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Regulation (EC) No 
45/2001 and Decision No 1247/2002/EC (OJ L 295, 21.11.2018, p. 39). 
EN 
21 
 EN 
HAVE ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 
Article 1 
Subject matter and scope  
(1) 
This Regulation lays down requirements on multilateral trading facilities and 
securities settlement systems using distributed ledger technology ‘DLT market 
infrastructures’, which are granted with a specific permissions to operate in 
accordance with Article 7 and Article 8.  
(2) 
This Regulation establishes the requirements for:  
(a) 
granting and withdrawing such specific permissions;  
(b) 
granting, modifying and withdrawing related exemptions; 
(c) 
mandating, modifying and withdrawing attached conditions, compensatory or 
corrective measures;  
(d) 
operating such DLT market infrastructures;   
(e) 
supervising such DLT market infrastructures; and 
(f) 
cooperation between operators of DLT market infrastructures, competent 
authorities and ESMA. 
Article 2 
Definitions 
For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions apply: 
(1) 
‘distributed ledger technology’ or ‘DLT’ means a class of technologies which 
support the distributed recording of encrypted data; 
(2) 
‘DLT market infrastructure’ means either a ‘DLT multilateral trading facility’ or a 
‘DLT securities settlement system’;      
(3) 
‘DLT  multilateral trading facility’ or ‘DLT MTF’ means a ‘multilateral trading 
facility’, operated by an investment firm or a market operator, that only admits to 
trading DLT transferable securities and that may be permitted, on the basis of 
transparent, non-discretionary, uniform rules and procedures, to:  
(a) 
ensure the initial recording of DLT transferable securities;  
(b) 
settle transactions in DLT transferable securities against payment; and  
(c) 
provide safekeeping services in relation to DLT transferable securities, or 
where applicable, to related payments and collateral, provided using the DLT 
MTF;  
(4) 
‘DLT securities settlement system’ means a securities settlement system, operated by 
a ‘central securities depository’, that settles transactions in DLT transferable 
securities against payment;  
(5) 
‘DLT transferable securities’ means ‘transferable securities’ within the meaning of 
Article 4(1)(44) (a) and (b) of Directive 2014/65/EU that are issued, recorded, 
transferred and stored using a DLT;    
EN 
22 
 EN 
(6) 
‘multilateral trading facility’ means a ‘multilateral trading facility’ as defined in 
Article 4(1)(22) of Directive 2014/65/EU; 
(7) 
‘central securities depository’ or ‘CSD’ means a ‘central securities depository’ as 
defined in Article 2(1) of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014; 
(8) 
‘financial instrument’ means a ‘financial instrument’ as defined in Article 4(1)(15) of  
Directive 2014/65/EU; 
(9) 
‘settlement’ means ‘settlement’ as defined in Article 2(7) of Regulation (EU) No 
909/2014;  
(10) 
‘business day’ means ‘business day’ as defined in Article 2(14) of Regulation (EU) 
No 909/2014;  
(11) 
‘delivery versus payment mean’ or ‘DVP’ means ‘delivery versus payment’ as 
defined in Article 2(27) of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014; 
(12) 
‘settlement fail’ means a ‘settlement fail’ as defined in Article 2(1)(15) of Regulation 
(EU) No 909/2014; 
(13) 
‘sovereign bond’ means a bond issued by a sovereign issuer which is either:  
(a) 
the Union; 
(b) 
a Member State including a government department, an agency or a special 
purpose vehicle of a Member State or another sovereign entity;  
(c) 
a sovereign entity which is not listed under points (a) and (b);  
(14) 
‘other public bond’ means a bond issued by any of the following public issuers:  
(a) 
in the case of a federal Member State, a member of that federation;  
(b) 
a special purpose vehicle for several Member States; 
(c) 
an international financial institution established by two or more Member States 
which has the purpose of mobilising funding and providing financial assistance 
to the benefit of its members to safeguard the stability of the euro area as a 
whole.; 
(d) 
the European Investment Bank; 
(e) 
a public entity which is not an issuer of a sovereign bond as specified in point 
(13).  
(15) 
‘convertible bond’ means an instrument consisting of a bond or a securitised debt 
instrument with an embedded derivative, such as an option to buy the underlying 
equity;  
(16) 
‘covered bond’ means bonds as referred to in Article 52(4) of Directive 2009/65/EC 
of the European Parliament and of the Council49;  
(17) 
‘corporate bond’ means a bond that is issued by a Societas Europaea  established in 
accordance with Council Regulation (EC) No 2157/200150 or a type of company 

49 
Directive 2009/65/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 July 2009 on the 
coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective 
investment in transferable securities (UCITS) (OJ L 302 17.11.2009, p. 32). 
50 
Council Regulation (EC) No 2157/2001 of 8 October 2001 on the Statute for a European company (SE) 

OJ L 294, 10.11.2001, p. 1–21  
EN 
23 
 EN 
listed in Annex I of Directive 2017/1132/EC51 of the European Parliament and of the 
Council or equivalent in third countries;  
(18) 
‘other bond’ means a bond that does not belong to any of the types of bonds 
specified in points (13) to (17);  
(19) 
‘investment firm’ means an ‘investment firm’ as defined in Article 4(1)(1) of 
Directive 2014/65/EU;  
(20) 
‘market operator’ means  a ‘market operator’ as defined in Article 4(1)(18) of 
Directive 2014/65/EU;  
(21) 
‘competent authority’ means one or more competent authorities designated either in 
accordance with:  
(a) 
Article 67 of Directive 2014/65/EU for investment firms and market 
operators operating a DLT MTF;  
(b) 
Article 11 of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 for a CSD operating a DLT 
securities settlement system;  or  
(c) 
otherwise designated by the Member States for the purposes of 
overseeing the application of this Regulation. 
(22) 
‘home  Member State’ means in the case of:  
(a) 
an investment firm operating a DLT MTF, the Member State determined 
in accordance with Article 4(55)(a) (ii) and (iii) of Directive 2014/65/EU;  
(b) 
a market operator operating a DLT MTF, the Member State in which the 
market operator of the DLT MTF is registered or, if under the law of that 
Member State it has no registered office, the Member State in which the 
head office of the marker operator of the DLT MTF is situated;    
(c) 
a CSD operating a DLT securities settlement system, the Member State 
determined in accordance with Article 2(23) of Regulation (EU) No 
909/2014/EU.   
(23) 
‘e-money tokens’ means ‘e-money tokens’ as defined in Article XX of Regulation 
No 2021/XX on Markets in Crypto-Assets52. 
Article 3 
Limitations on the transferable securities admitted to trading on or settled by a DLT market 
infrastructure  
1. 
Only DLT transferable securities that meet the following conditions may be admitted 
to trading on a DLT MTF and recorded on a distributed ledger by a CSD operating a 
DLT securities settlement system 
(a) 
shares, the issuer of which has a market capitalisation or a tentative market 
capitalisation of less than EUR 200 million; or 

51 
Directive (EU) 2017/1132 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 2017 relating to 
certain aspects of company law (OJ L 169, 30.6.2017, p. 46) 
52 
Proposal for a Regulation of the European parliament and of the Council on Markets in  Crypto-assets 
and amending Directive (EU) 2019/1937 – COM(2020)593  
EN 
24 
 EN 
(b) 
convertible bonds, covered bonds, corporate bonds, other public bonds and 
other bonds, with an issuance size of less than EUR 500 million.   
2. 
An investment firm or market operator operating a DLT MTF shall not admit to 
trading sovereign bonds under this Regulation. A CSD operating a DLT securities 
settlement system, or an investment firm or market operator that is permitted to 
record DLT transferable securities on a DLT MTF, in accordance with paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Article 4, shall not record sovereign bonds under this Regulation.  
3. 
The total market value of DLT transferable securities recorded in a CSD operating a 
DLT securities settlement system shall not exceed EUR 2.5 billion. Where a DLT 
MTF records the DLT transferable securities instead of a CSD, in accordance with 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 4, the total market value of the DLT transferable 
securities recorded by the investment firm or market operator operating the DLT 
MTF shall not exceed EUR 2.5 billion. 
4. 
For the purposes of determining and monitoring the total market value of DLT 
transferable securities under paragraph 1, the total market value of the DLT 
transferable securities shall be: 
(a) 
determined daily, either by the CSD or the investment firm or market operator 
concerned; and 
(b) 
equal to the sum of: the daily closing price of each DLT transferable security 
admitted for trading on a DLT MTF, multiplied by the number of DLT 
transferable securities with the same ISIN that are settled on the DLT securities 
settlement system or DLT MTF concerned on that day, whether in full or in 
part. 
5. 
The operator of a DLT market infrastructure shall submit to the competent authority 
that granted the specific permission, in accordance with Article 7 or Article 8, 
monthly reports, demonstrating that all the DLT transferable securities that are 
recorded and settled on a DLT MTF permitted to do so, in accordance with 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 4, or by a CSD on a DLT securities settlement system, 
fulfil the conditions under paragraphs 1 to 3. 
Where the total market value of the DLT transferable securities reported under 
paragraph 1, has reached EUR 2.25 billion, the investment firm or market operator 
operating the DLT MTF concerned, or the CSD operating the DLT securities 
settlement system concerned shall activate the transition strategy, referred to in 
Article 6(6).  They shall notify the competent authority of the activation of their 
transition strategy, in their monthly report and of the time-horizon for such transition.   
The competent authority concerned may permit the DLT market infrastructure 
concerned to continue to operate until the total market value of the DLT transferable 
securities reported under paragraph 1 reaches EUR 2.75 billion provided that such 
leeway is requested by the operator of the DLT market infrastructure concerned and 
that it is objectively necessary for the orderly implementation of the transition 
strategy.     
6. 
Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 shall apply to DLT transferable securities admitted to 
trading on a DLT MTF.  
EN 
25 
 EN 
Article 4 
Requirements and exemptions regarding DLT multilateral trading facilities 
1. 
A DLT MTF shall be subject to all the requirements applicable to an MTF under 
Directive  2014/65/EU and Regulation (EU) No 2014/600, except if the investment 
firm or the market operator operating the DLT MTF:  
(a) 
has requested an exemption as specified in paragraph 2 or under Directive (EU) 
.../...53 and has been granted such an exemption by the  competent authority that 
granted the specific permission in accordance with Article 7; and 
(b) 
complies with the obligations set out in Article 6; and 
(c) 
complies with the conditions set out in paragraphs 2 to 4 and with any 
additional compensatory measures that the competent authority which granted 
the specific permission may deem appropriate in order to meet the objectives 
pursued by the provisions from which an exemption is requested or to ensure 
investor protection, market integrity and/or financial stability.  
2. 
At its request, an investment firm or a market operator operating a DLT MTF may be 
permitted to admit to trading DLT transferable securities that are not recorded in a 
CSD in accordance with Article 3(2) of Regulation (EU) 909/2014 but instead 
recorded on the DLT MTF’s distributed ledger.  
An investment firm or market operator requesting an exemption pursuant to 
paragraph 1 shall propose compensatory measures to meet the objectives pursued by 
the provisions from which an exemption is requested, and ensure at a minimum: 
(a) 
the recording of the DLT transferable securities on the digital ledger 
technology;  
(b) 
that the number of DLT transferable securities recorded on the DLT MTF 
equals the total number of such DLT transferable securities in circulation on 
the digital ledger technology at any given time;  
(c) 
that the DLT MTF keeps records which enable the investment firm or market 
operator operating the DLT MTF, without delay at any given time, to segregate 
the DLT transferable securities of a member, participant, issuer or client from 
those of any other member, participant, issuer or client. 
Where no request for an exemption has been made by the DLT MTF in accordance 
with the first subparagraph, the DLT transferable securities shall either be recorded 
in book-entry form in a CSD or on the distributed ledger technology of a CSD 
operating a DLT securities settlement system.   
3. 
Where an investment firm or a market operator operating a DLT MTF has requested 
an exemption under paragraph 2, it shall ensure, by means of robust procedures and 
arrangements that, the DLT MTF:     
(a) 
guarantees that the number of DLT transferable securities in an issue or in part 
of an issue admitted by the investment firm or market operator operating the 

53 
Proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directives 
2006/43/EC, 2009/65/EC, 2009/138/EU, 2011/61/EU, EU/2013/36, 2014/65/EU, (EU) 2015/2366 and 
EU/2016/2341 - COM(2020)596 - - COM(2020)596 

EN 
26 
 EN 
DLT MTF, is equal to the sum of DLT transferable securities making up such 
an issue or part of an issue, recorded on the DLT, at any given time;  
(b) 
guarantees the safekeeping of any DLT transferable securities, as well as any 
funds to effect payments for such securities or any collateral provided in 
respect of such transactions using the DLT MTF;  
(c) 
enables clear, accurate and timely confirmation of the details of transactions in 
DLT transferable securities including any payments made in respect thereof as 
well as the discharge of or calling for any collateral in respect of the same;  
(d) 
provides clear, accurate and timely information in relation to the settlement of 
transactions, including settlement finality, by  defining the moment from which 
transfer orders or other pre-identified instructions may not be revoked by a 
member, participant, issuer or client;  
(e) 
settles transactions in DLT transferable securities close to real time or intraday, 
and in any case, no later than on the second business day after the conclusion 
of the trade;  
(f) 
ensures delivery versus payment.   
The settlement of payments may be carried out through central bank money 
where practicable and available, or where not practicable and available, 
through commercial bank money, including commercial bank money in a 
token-based form, or in e-money tokens.  
Where settlement occurs through commercial bank money or e-money tokens, 
the investment firm or market operator operating the DLT MTF shall identify, 
measure, monitor, manage, and minimise any counterparty risk arising from 
the use of such money; and 
(g) 
either prevents or, if not possible, addresses settlement fails.    
4. 
Where an investment firm or a market operator operating a DLT MTF requests an 
exemption in accordance with paragraph 2 or with Directive (EU) .../...54, it shall in 
any case demonstrate that the exemption requested is:    
(a) 
proportionate to and justified by the use of a DLT; and 
(b) 
limited to the DLT MTF and does not extended to any other MTF operated by 
the said investment firm or market operator.  
Article 5 
Requirements and exemptions regarding DLT securities settlement system 
1. 
A CSD operating a DLT securities settlement system shall be subject to the 
requirements applicable to a CSD under Regulation (EU) No 909/2014, except if 
such a CSD:  

54 
Proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directives 
2006/43/EC, 2009/65/EC, 2009/138/EU, 2011/61/EU, EU/2013/36, 2014/65/EU, (EU) 2015/2366 and 
EU/2016/2341 - - COM(2020)596 

EN 
27 
 EN 
(a) 
has requested exemptions as specified in paragraphs 2 to 6 and has been  
granted such exemptions by the competent authority that granted the specific 
permission in accordance with Article 8;  
(b) 
complies with the obligations set out in Article 6; and 
(c) 
complies with the conditions set out in paragraphs 2 to 7 and with any 
additional compensatory measures that the competent authority which granted 
the specific permission may deem appropriate in order to meet the objectives 
pursued by the provisions from which an exemption is requested or to ensure 
investor protection, market integrity and/or financial stability.   
2. 
At its request, a CSD operating a DLT securities settlement system may be exempted 
by the competent authority from the application of Article 2(4) on dematerialised 
form, Article 2(9) on transfer of orders, Article 2(28) on securities accounts, Article 
3 on the recording of securities, Article 37 on the integrity of issue, Article 38 on the 
segregation of assets of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014, provided that the CSD 
operating the DLT securities settlement system:   
(a) 
demonstrates that the use of a ‘securities account’ as defined under Article 2(28) of 
Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 or the use of book-entry form are incompatible with 
the use of its particular DLT;  
(b) 
proposes compensatory measures to meet the objectives pursued by the provisions 
from which an exemption is requested, and ensures at minimum that: 
(c) 
the recording of the DLT transferable securities on the distributed ledger;  
(d) 
the number of DLT transferable securities in an issue or in part of an issue admitted 
by the CSD operating the DLT settlement securities system, is equal to the sum of 
DLT transferable securities making up such issue or part of an issue, recorded on the 
distributed ledger at any given time; and 
(e) 
it keeps records which enable the CSD, without delay at any given time, to  segregate 
the DLT transferable securities of a member, participant, issuer or client from those 
of any other member, participant, issuer or client.    
3. 
At its request, a CSD operating a DLT securities settlement system may be exempted 
by the competent authority from the application of Article 19 and Article 30 of 
Regulation (EU) No 909/2014, provided that:  
(a) 
such provisions are incompatible with the use of a DLT as envisaged by 
the particular DLT operated by the CSD concerned; and 
(b) 
the CSD operating the DLT securities settlement system ensures that the 
conditions set out in points (c) to (i) of Article 30(1) and in Article 30(2) 
of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 are complied with.  
4. 
At its request, a CSD operating a DLT securities settlement system may be exempted 
by the competent authority from the application of Article 2(19) of Regulation (EU) 
No 909/2014 on participants and may be permitted to admit as participants natural 
and legal persons other than those referred to in Article 2(19), provided that such 
persons:  
(a) 
are of sufficient good repute and are fit and proper; and 
(b) 
have sufficient level of ability, competence, experience and knowledge of 
the post-trading and the functioning of DLT.   
EN 
28 
 EN 
5. 
At its request, a CSD operating a DLT securities settlement system may be exempted 
by the competent authority from the application of Article 40 of Regulation (EU) No 
909/2014 on cash settlement, provided that the CSD ensures delivery versus 
payment.   
The settlement of payments may be carried out through central bank money, where 
practicable and available, or where not practicable and available, through 
commercial bank money, including commercial bank money in a token-based form, 
or in e-money tokens.  
Where settlement occurs through commercial bank money or e-money tokens, the 
investment firm or market operator operating the DLT MTF shall identify, measure, 
monitor, manage, and minimise any counterparty risk arising from the use of such 
money.  
6. 
At its request, a CSD operating a DLT securities settlement system may be exempted 
by the competent authority from the application of Articles 50 and/or Article 53 on 
standard link access and access between a CSD and another market infrastructure of 
Regulation (EU) No 909/2014, provided that it demonstrates that the use of a DLT is 
incompatible with legacy systems of other CSDs or other market infrastructures or 
that granting such access to another CSD or another market infrastructure using 
legacy systems would trigger disproportionate costs, given the size of the DLT 
securities settlement system.    
7. 
Where a CSD operating a DLT securities settlement system has requested an 
exemption in accordance with the first sub-paragraph, it shall give access to other 
CSDs operating a DLT securities settlement system or to DLT MTFs.   
Where a CSD operating a DLT securities settlement system requests an exemption in 
accordance with paragraphs 2 to 6, it shall in any case demonstrate that:    
(a) 
the exemption requested is proportionate to and justified by the use of its DLT, 
and;  
(b) 
the exemption requested is limited to the DLT securities settlement system and 
does not extend to any other securities settlement system as defined in Article 
2(10) of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 operated by the same CSD.   
8. 
Where a CSD has requested and been granted an exemption under paragraph 3, the 
requirement in Article 39(1) of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014/EU for Member States 
to designate and notify the securities settlement system operated by the CSD in 
accordance with Directive 98/26/EC shall not apply to the DLT securities settlement 
system. The foregoing shall not preclude Member States from designating and 
notifying a DLT securities settlement system in accordance with Directive 98/26/EC 
where the DLT securities settlement system fulfils all of the requirements of that 
Directive.        
Article 6 
 Additional requirements on DLT market infrastructures 
1. 
The operators of DLT market infrastructures shall establish a clear and detailed 
business plan describing how they intend to carry out their services and activities, 
including a description of critical staff, technical aspects, the use of the DLT and the 
information required in paragraph 3.  
EN 
29 
 EN 
They shall also have up-to-date, clear and detailed publically available written 
documentation, which may be made available by electronic means, defining the rules 
under which the DLT market infrastructure shall operate, including the agreed upon 
associated legal terms defining the rights, obligations, responsibilities and liabilities 
of the operator of the DLT market infrastructure, as well as that of the members, 
participants, issuers and/or clients using the DLT market infrastructure concerned. 
Such legal arrangements shall specify the governing law, the pre-litigation dispute 
settlement mechanism and the jurisdiction for bringing legal action.   
2. 
A CSD operating a DLT securities settlement system, and an investment firm or a 
market operator operating a DLT MTF requesting an exemption from Article 3(2) of 
Regulation (EU) No 909/2014, shall establish rules on the functioning of the DLT 
they operate, including the rules for accessing the distributed ledger technology, the 
participation of the validating nodes, addressing potential conflicts of interest, and 
risk management including any mitigation measures.   
3. 
The operators of DLT market infrastructures shall provide their members, 
participants, issuers and clients with clear and unambiguous information on their 
website on how they carry out their functions, services and activities and how this 
performance of functions, services and activities deviates from an MTF or a 
securities settlement system. This information shall include the type of DLT used.  
4. 
The operators of DLT market infrastructures shall ensure that the overall IT and 
cyber arrangements related to the use of their DLT are proportionate to the nature, 
scale and complexity of their business. These arrangements shall ensure the 
continued transparency, availability, reliability and security of their services and 
activities, including the reliability of smart contracts used on the DLT. These 
arrangements shall also ensure the integrity, security and confidentiality of any data 
stored, and the availability and accessibility of such data.  
The operators of DLT market infrastructures shall have a specific operational risk 
procedure for the risks posed by the use of a DLT and crypto-assets and on how 
these risks would be addressed if they materialised.   
To assess the reliability of the overall IT and cyber arrangements of a DLT market 
infrastructure, the competent authority may require an audit. The competent authority 
shall appoint an independent auditor to carry out the audit. The DLT market 
infrastructure shall bear the costs of such an audit. 
5. 
Where the operator of a DLT market infrastructure ensures the safekeeping of 
participants’, members’, participants’, issuers’ or clients’ funds, collateral and DLT 
transferable securities, as well as the means of access to such DLT transferable 
securities, including in the form of cryptographic keys, the operators of such DLT 
market infrastructures shall have adequate arrangements in place to prevent the use 
of the said funds, collateral or DLT transferable securities on their own account other 
than with the express consent, evidenced in writing, which may be made through 
electronic means, of the participant, member, issuer, or client concerned.  
The operator of a DLT market infrastructure shall maintain safe, accurate, reliable 
and retrievable records of the funds, collateral and DLT transferable securities held 
by its DLT market infrastructure for members, participants, issuers or clients as well 
as of the means of access to such assets. 
The operator of a DLT market infrastructure shall segregate the funds, collateral and 
DLT transferable securities as well as the means of access to such assets, of the 
EN 
30 
 EN 
members, participants, issuers or clients using its DLT market infrastructure from its 
own assets as well as from the same assets of other members, participants, issuers or 
clients.  
The overall IT and cyber arrangements, referred to in paragraph 4, shall ensure that 
the said funds, collateral and DLT transferable securities, as well as the means of 
access to such assets, are protected from the risks of unauthorised access, hacking, 
degradation, loss, cyber-attack or theft. 
6. 
The operator of a DLT market infrastructure shall establish a clear, detailed and 
publically available strategy for transitioning out of or winding down a particular 
DLT market infrastructure (referred to herein as the ‘transition strategy’), ready to be 
deployed in a timely manner, in the event that the permission or some of the 
exemptions granted in accordance with Article 4 or Article 5 have to be withdrawn 
or otherwise discontinued, or in the event of any voluntary or involuntary cessation 
of the business of the DLT MTF or DLT securities settlement system. The transition 
strategy shall set out how members, participants, issuers and clients shall be treated, 
in the event of such withdrawal, discontinuation or cessation. The transition strategy 
shall be updated on an ongoing basis subject to the prior consent of the competent 
authority which granted the permission to operate and related exemptions under 
Article 4 and Article 5.     
Article 7 
Specific permission to operate a DLT multilateral trading facility 
1. 
A legal person authorised either as an investment firm or to operate a regulated 
market, under Directive 2014/65/EU, may apply for a specific permission to operate 
a DLT MTF under this Regulation. 
2. 
Applications for a specific permission to operate a DLT MTF under this Regulation 
shall be accompanied by the following information: 
(a) 
the information required under Article 7(4) of Directive 2014/65/EU;  
(b) 
the business plan, rules of the DLT MTF and associated legal arrangements as 
referred to in Article 6(1) as well the information regarding the functioning, services 
and activities of the DLT MTF as referred to in Article 6(3);  
(c) 
where applicable, the functioning of its proprietary DLT as referred to in Article 
6(2);  
(d) 
its overall IT and cyber arrangements as referred to in Article 6(4);  
(e) 
where applicable, a description of the safekeeping arrangements of clients’ DLT 
transferable securities as referred to in Article 6(5);  
(f) 
its transition strategy, as referred to in Article 6(6);  and 
(g) 
the exemptions it is requesting in accordance with Article 4, the justification for each 
exemption sought, any compensatory measures proposed as well as the means 
envisaged to comply with the conditions attached to such exemptions under Article 
4. 
3. 
Before deciding on an application for a specific permission to operate a DLT MTF 
under this Regulation, the competent authority of the home Member State shall 
notify and provide all relevant information on the DLT MTF to ESMA, an 
EN 
31 
 EN 
explanation of the exemptions requested, their justifications and any compensatory 
measures proposed by the applicant or required by the competent authority.   
Within three months of receipt of the notification, ESMA shall provide the 
competent authority with a non-binding opinion on the application and shall make 
any recommendations on the exemptions requested by the applicant, that are 
necessary to ensure investor protection, market integrity and financial stability. 
ESMA shall also promote the consistency and proportionality of exemptions granted 
by competent authorities to investment firms or market operators operating DLT 
MTFs across the Union.  In order to do so, ESMA, shall consult the competent 
authorities of the other Member States in a timely manner and take the utmost 
account of their views in its opinion.     
4. 
Without prejudice to Article 7 and Article 44 of Directive 2014/65/EU, the 
competent authority shall refuse to grant the applicant a permission to operate a DLT 
MTF under this Regulation if there are objective grounds for believing any of the 
following:  
(a) 
significant risks to investor protection, market integrity or financial stability are 
not properly addressed and mitigated by the applicant; or 
(b) 
the specific permission to operate a DLT MTF under this Regulation and the 
exemptions requested are sought to circumvent legal and/or regulatory 
requirements.   
5. 
The specific permission granted to either an investment firm or a market operator to 
operate a DLT MTF shall be valid throughout the Union for up to six years from the 
date of the specific permission. It shall specify the exemptions that are granted, in 
accordance with Article 4.  
ESMA shall publish on its website the list of DLT MTFs, the start and end dates of 
their specific permissions and the list of exemptions granted to each of them.  
6. 
Without prejudice to Article 8 and Article 44 of Directive 2014/65/EU, the 
competent authority which granted a specific permission under this Regulation shall 
withdraw such permission or any of the exemptions granted, after consultation with 
ESMA, in accordance with paragraph 3, if any of the following has occurred: 
(a) 
a flaw has been discovered in the functioning of the DLT or in the services and 
activities provided by the operator of the DLT MTF that poses a risk to 
investor protection, market integrity or financial stability, which outweighs the 
benefits of the services and activities under experimentation;  
(b) 
the investment firm or market operator operating the DLT MTF has breached 
the conditions attached to the exemptions granted by the competent authority;  
(c) 
the investment firm or market operator, operating a DLT MTF has admitted to 
trading financial instruments that do not fulfil the conditions laid down in 
Article 3(1) and 3(2);  
(d) 
the investment firm or market operator, operating a DLT MTF, that has 
requested an exemption from Article 3(2) of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014, 
has recorded DLT transferable securities that do not fulfil the conditions laid 
down in Article 3(1) and 3(2);  
(e) 
the investment firm or market operator, operating a DLT MTF, that has 
requested specific permission to be exempted from Article 3(2) of Regulation 
EN 
32 
 EN 
(EU) No 909/2014, has exceeded the thresholds referred to in Article 3(3) or 
(5), third subparagraph; or   
(f) 
the competent authority becomes aware that the investment firm or market 
operator that applied for a specific permission to operate a DLT MTF, obtained 
such permission or related exemptions on the basis of misleading information 
including any material omission.   
7. 
Where in the course of its activity, an investment firm or a market operator operating 
a DLT MTF proposes to introduces a material change to the functioning of the DLT, 
or to its services or activities, which requires a new permission, a new exemption, or 
the modification of one or more of its existing exemptions or of any conditions 
attached to it, it shall request such permission, exemption or modification in 
accordance with Article 4. Such permission, exemption or modification shall be 
processed by the competent authority, in accordance with paragraphs 2 to 5.  
Where in the course of its activity, an investment firm or a market operator operating 
a DLT MTF requests a new permission or exemption, it shall do so in accordance 
with Article 4. Such permission or exemption shall be processed by the competent 
authority, in accordance with paragraphs 2 to 5.  
Article 8 
  Specific permission to operate a DLT securities settlement system 
1. 
A legal person authorised as a CSD under Regulation (EU) No 909/2014, may apply 
for a specific permission to operate a DLT securities settlement system under this 
Regulation.  
2. 
Applications for a specific permission to operate a DLT securities settlement system 
under this Regulation shall be accompanied by the following information: 
(a) 
the information required under Article 7(9) of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014;  
(b) 
the business plan, rules of the DLT securities settlement system and associated 
legal arrangements as referred to in Article 6(1) as well as information 
regarding the functioning, services and activities of the DLT securities 
settlement system as referred to in Article 6(3);  
(c) 
the functioning of its proprietary DLT as referred to in Article 6(2);   
(d) 
its overall IT and cyber arrangements as referred to in Article 6(4);  
(e) 
the safekeeping arrangements as referred to in Article 6(5);  
(f) 
the transition strategy as referred to in Article 6(6); 
(g) 
the exemptions it is requesting, in accordance with Article 5, the justifications 
for each exemption sought, any compensatory measures proposed as well as 
the measures envisaged to comply with the conditions attached to such 
exemptions under Article 5. 
3. 
Before deciding on an application for a specific permission to operate a DLT MTF 
under this Regulation, the competent authority shall notify and provide all relevant 
information on the DLT securities settlement system to ESMA and an explanation of 
the exemptions requested, their justification and any compensatory measures 
proposed by the applicant or required by the competent authority.   
